# Why Game Developers are Leaving the Industry

(https://aftermath.site/video-game-industry-layoffs)

Video games have been one of the first reasons I became interested in computers and programming and it is likely the same for many others. Reading this article, it seems like the industry is sadly not reciprocating the same passion many of these developers have for their work. As gaming becomes more and more of a mainstream hobby, more financial incentives have driven companies to make games for profit rather than to make art or for fun. It is very understandable since game development is extremely expensive but the article describes it to have gone too far and is causing many workers to burn out.

One of the more interesting points in this article is how the skillset for video game developers are very specific to videogames like how city planners require a lot of specialization. This results in it being hard to developers to pivot to other developer jobs. The more I think about it the more it makes sense. Videogame development in many sectors is more like a creative job that is expressed through programming rather than a purely technical job. Jobs like Level design and character design are all very specific to the arts and games with programming skills as almost a secondary at times. 

I want to be more optimisitic with the rise of indie studios and solo projects. There are also still many places where traditional elements of computer science and software engineering come in with the rise in live service games and graphics. The article states some people have pivoted to other jobs relating to media creation like film showing that for many the desire to create something creative still exists. 

## Nathan Daniel's Thoughts (WayyGood)

Something from this article that stands out to me is the intense challenge of transitioning from game development to other careers, particularly for those with highly specialized roles like Game or Level Designers. Devon Wiersma highlights the difficulty of finding comparable work outside of games without significant retraining, as the skills are uniquely tailored to the industry. This contrasts with other tech roles, like programming or UX design, where transitioning to more conventional fields is easier. The gaming industry is rigid and can trap passionate creators in a cycle where leaving usually means overhauling their whole career.